Do I need to follow the AGF to the letter?
==========================================

No. Businesses differ wildly in their organizational structures, cultures and
approaches. It is important to remember that the guidance provided by the AGF is
just that – *guidance*. Your organization may outsource some functions or have
grouped teams along different domains historically. That’s okay. The AGF will
highlight the places where there is flexibility in the model so that you can
adapt your implementation appropriately.

Background -rationale
=====================

When moving to a public cloud, customers must address the topic of governance
early to ensure the successful use of the cloud within the enterprise.
Unfortunately, the time and bureaucracy of creating a comprehensive governance
system means some business groups go directly to providers without involving
enterprise IT. This approach can leave the enterprise open to compromise if the
resources are not properly managed. The characteristics of the public cloud -
agility, flexibility, and consumption-based pricing - are important to business
groups that need to quickly meet the demands of customers (both internal and
external). Nonetheless enterprise IT needs to ensure that data and systems are
effectively protected.

One approach that successful customers have implemented is the creation of a
Cloud Center of Excellence (CCoE). The CCoE is a modern IT operational model
that that follows an agile approach to capturing business requirements to
partner with the business. The goal of this offering is to work with customers
to create a functional CCoE that provided agility, governance and security to
the business.

The CCoE needs a solid Azure cloud and DevOps foundation (people, processes, and
technology). Partner will conduct a gap analysis to evaluate the level of
remediation needed to develop a functional CCoE.

Executive Summary
=================

The CCoE is an evolution of the traditional, legacy IT model operated on
premises and in customer own datacenters. While the traditional IT model may
have served organizations well, it also had a number of limitations. These
limitations were driven by traditional ITs need both to acquire hardware and to
install any accompanying software. This effort typically created siloed
organizations within IT where each silo managed its own parochial needs. The
introduction of public clouds and in particular, the need for Agile software
development meant that siloed organization such as these created barriers to
developing an efficient public cloud offering.

The CCoE is first and foremost the transformation from IT being an intermediary
for strategy, design and operation (a man-in-the-middle role) to becoming a
partner with the business and adds value as a broker to business providing
knowledge and experience around the evolving technology landscapes that cloud
creates.

The CCoE helps customers build a modern IT organization that follows an agile
approach and follows cloud-native principles like using reusable deployment
packages that align with security, compliance, and service management policies;
and maintaining a functional cloud platform that aligns with operational
procedures. The CCoE utilizes DevOps principles combined with cloud native
service management and security controls to empower IT to deliver products and
services with speed, agility, and control.

Enterprises are increasingly adopting the public cloud for its agility and
flexibility. They utilize the cloud's strengths to generate revenue and optimize
resource usage for the business. Microsoft Azure provides a multitude of
services and capabilities that enterprises assemble like building blocks to
address a wide array of workloads and applications.

Deciding to use Microsoft Azure is only the first step to achieving the benefit
of the cloud. The second step is understanding how the enterprise can
effectively use Azure and identify the baseline capabilities that need to be in
place to address questions like:

-   "I'm concerned about data sovereignty; how can I ensure that my data and
    systems meet our regulatory requirements?"

-   "How do I know what every resource is supporting so I can account for it and
    bill it back accurately?"

-   "I want to make sure that everything we deploy or do in the public cloud
    starts with the mindset of security first, how do I help facilitate that?"

The prospect of an empty subscription with no guard rails is daunting. This
blank space can hamper your move to Azure.

This article provides a starting point for technical professionals to address
the need for governance and balance it with the need for agility. It introduces
the concept of an enterprise scaffold that guides organizations in implementing
and managing their Azure environments in a secure way. It provides the framework
to develop effective and efficient controls.

Need for governance
-------------------

When moving to Azure, you must address the topic of governance early to ensure
the successful use of the cloud within the enterprise. Unfortunately, the time
and bureaucracy of creating a comprehensive governance system means some
business groups go directly to providers without involving enterprise IT. This
approach can leave the enterprise open to compromise if the resources are not
properly managed. The characteristics of the public cloud - agility,
flexibility, and consumption-based pricing - are important to business groups
that need to quickly meet the demands of customers (both internal and external).
But, enterprise IT needs to ensure that data and systems are effectively
protected.

When creating a building, scaffolding is used to create the basis of a
structure. The scaffold guides the general outline and provides anchor points
for more permanent systems to be mounted. An enterprise scaffold is the same: a
set of flexible controls and Azure capabilities that provide structure to the
environment, and anchors for services built on the public cloud. It provides the
builders (IT and business groups) a foundation to create and attach new services
keeping speed of delivery in mind.

The scaffold is based on practices we have gathered from many engagements with
clients of various sizes. Those clients range from small organizations
developing solutions in the cloud to large multi-national enterprises and
independent software vendors who are migrating workloads and developing
cloud-native solutions. The enterprise scaffold is "purpose-built" to be
flexible to support both traditional IT workloads and agile workloads; such as,
developers creating software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications based on Azure
platform capabilities.

The enterprise scaffold is intended to be the foundation of each new
subscription within Azure. It enables administrators to ensure workloads meet
the minimum governance requirements of an organization without preventing
business groups and developers from quickly meeting their own goals. Our
experience shows that this greatly speeds, rather than impedes, public cloud
growth.

History
=======

S

Cloud first, cloud forward
==========================

S

What is a ccoe?
===============

S

![A picture containing text, map Description automatically generated](media/c4e7893791612dbca36558382524caf6.png)

### Do I need a ccoe?

This CCoE offering is where Partners will help customers setup and
operationalize a CCoE with deep focus foundational aspects of platform
enablement. The goal of the offering is to create a secure and well-governed
Azure environment, ready to accept workloads This offering can be undertaken by
almost any customer, from those who are just beginning their cloud journey to
ones who are already deeply invested in cloud but want to modernize their IT
approach.

While the fullest expression of a CCoE may be an organization that implements a
zero touch, infrastructure as code environment - not all customers are willing
nor ready to make the full extent of that journey. This offering is designed to
formalize the creation and to operationalize a CCoE with a focus on platform
aspects, where immediate gains can be made in terms of governance, security and
operational efficiency.

The content of this offering is a pre-requisite before the DevOps-focused CCoE
efforts can begin. An offering focused on CCoE Dev-Ops can be added after this
one for those customers who would benefit from it. One of the tenants of this
offering is to create a CCoE in a way that minimized architectural and
organizational debt for those customers who continue on to take the full
journey.

This model provides a structure for customers to implement, manage, and operate
their Azure platform. The CCoE uses agile DevOps principles combined with
cloud-native service management and security controls to help drive business
innovation, increase agility, and reduce time to value within a secure,
predictable and flexible services delivery and operations management capability.
The CCoE provides patterns for modern IT structures, actions and governance.

This offering is meant to provide the coaching and mentorship needed to enable
the customer’s IT team to realize the value of CCoE operations, as well as
making IT an integral part of their organization.

The CCoE will be initially populated by both the Partner and customer resources
(customer permitting). The Partner will bring recommended practices and
experience to bear with customers to build the CCoE in order to implement,
manage, and operate the Azure platform.

Once the CCoE has grown and matured the need for external guidance is be reduced
and the customer alone should populate the CCoE. This offering is a hands-on
approach where the customer achieves cultural change, adopt a new way of working
and embed use of cloud-native technology and principles.

Devops
======

S

Agile
=====

S

The cloud operating model
=========================

S

People, process and tech
------------------------

S

ases, the partner can be seated on the committee as a purely advisory role.
