Azure Governance Foundations
============================

The Azure Governance Foundation (AGF) is designed to provide clear guidance on
how to create a well-managed Azure environment by creating a Cloud Center of
Excellence (CCoE) team. The purpose of this guidance is to share the approach
and insights of customers who are successfully using similar governing bodies to
manage their Azure environments.

The goal of the AGF is to help customers:

-   Transform the IT organization into a true partner with the business

-   Create a functional Azure governance team (CCoE)

-   Well-managed Azure platform aligned with corporate governance standards

-   Creation of certified catalog of cloud products

-   Increased corporate confidence in Azure

-   Follow and agile approach in governing Azure

-   Define policies across disciplines and implement those in the form of Azure
    Policies and other cloud-native mechanisms.

-   Design a well-governed and managed Azure environment ready to accept
    production workloads.

-   Increase TTM for workloads deployed in Azure.

Is the AGF for me?
--------------

The Azure Governance Foundation is for any organization that wants to implement
a tested approach to creating a well-managed Azure environment. AGF is best
thought of as an extension to the [Microsoft Cloud Operating
Model](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/cloud-operating-model---full-document/)
which covers the people, process and technology aspects of cloud adoption. If
you have not read the Cloud Operating Model, you should begin there and then
return to the AGF if you need deeper guidance on the people and process aspects
of this approach.

The AGF is designed for customers who want to transform their IT organizations
into strong partners with their businesses. New cloud customers who aren’t quite
sure where to start on their transformational journey will benefit from the AGF
as well as existing cloud customers who want to improve their efficiency,
governance and corporate confidence in the cloud.

What if I don’t use Azure – can this approach help me?
------------------------------------------------------

Yes, it can. The AGF approach is not specific to any one cloud. In many ways,
the approach to management and governance described here is neither new nor
profoundly revolutionary. It is simply a common-sense approach to managing
assets in a cloud-first world. This approach can be used in AWS or GCP as well
as in Azure. Good governance and a well-managed environment are not the domain
of any one cloud provider.

That said, much of the approach described here will be tactical and specific to
Azure. The use of Azure Policies, Management Groups and Azure Blueprints are
limited to Azure. Details of how to implement aspects like identity, networking
and cloud-native tooling are focused solely on the Microsoft Cloud. Inasmuch as
there is parity across these features and functions in other cloud providers,
the information in this guide may be applied to any cloud.

What about other approaches?
----------------------------

The AGF is not the only governance approach used by successful customers, but it
is *one* approach. The purpose of this guidance is highlighting the AGF and CCoE
approach as a reasonable and appropriate one, especially for customers looking
for a place to start. There are other governance approaches that achieve similar
outcomes.

Contributing
------------

To contribute and get started, please visit our [contribution
guide](contribution-guide/readme.md).

Code of Conduct
---------------

*This project has adopted the* [Microsoft Open Source Code of
Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/)*. For more information
see the* [Code of Conduct
FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) *or contact*
<opencode@microsoft.com> *with any additional questions or comments.*
