Azure Governance Foundations Introduction
=========================================

The need for governance
-----------------------

The characteristics of the public cloud - agility, flexibility, and
consumption-based pricing - are of paramount importance to organizations that
need to move quickly. Historically enterprise IT, while trying to ensure that
systems are effectively governed and secured, were often seen as slow to react
and in the most extreme cases as draconian in their approach.

This gave rise to the notion (in some cases a misconception) that the time and
effort of creating a comprehensive governance system and its accompanying
bureaucracy would slow the business down to the point where it would negate any
gains realized from using the cloud. As such, some groups within businesses
ended up going directly to cloud providers without involving enterprise IT. The
practice was in fact so popular it was given the name “Shadow IT” by the
industry.

When we look at enterprises who have successfully moved to the cloud, we find
that they typically address the topic of governance early to ensure the
effective use of the cloud within the enterprise. They have a general approach
of building and securing their cloud before anyone can use it. A common analogy
used among these organizations is “building the house” before letting anyone
occupy it.

To follow the analogy of a house being built (where a well-governed cloud is the
outcome) we need to make use of scaffolding to secure our structures. The
scaffold provides the general outline and boundaries for future additions to be
mounted. An enterprise cloud scaffold is much the same: a set of flexible
controls and cloud capabilities that provide structure to the environment, sets
perimeters and provides and anchors for services built on the public cloud.
Scaffolding provides a foundation to create and attach new services keeping
speed of delivery in mind.

The enterprise scaffold is intended to be the foundation of cloud environments.
It enables administrators to ensure workloads meet the minimum governance
requirements of an organization while allowing business groups and developers to
quickly meeting their own goals.

Contrary to the opinions that led to the rise of Shadow IT, our experience shows
that foundational governance efforts greatly speed, rather than impede, cloud
growth.

How an enterprise implements this scaffolding and governance varies but the
purpose of the Azure Governance Foundations (AGF) is to provide a concrete
approach to this effort.

One approach that successful customers have implemented is the creation of a
Cloud Center of Excellence (CCoE). The CCoE is comprised of teams of very
specialized personnel who focus on cloud governance and management. The idea of
a CCoE is one of a modern IT operational model that that follows an agile
approach to capturing business requirements to partner with the business. The
goal of the AGF is to help customers create a functional CCoE that provided
agility, governance and security to the business.

The cloud operating model
=========================

S

![](media/79199795796a8fc3a911693a3c1df51b.png)

### People, process and tech

S

ases, the partner can be seated on the committee as a purely advisory role.

Executive Summary of a Cloud Center of Excellence
-------------------------------------------------

The CCoE is an evolution of the traditional, legacy IT model operated on
premises and in customer own datacenters. While the traditional IT model may
have served organizations well, it also had a number of limitations. These
limitations were driven by traditional ITs need both to acquire hardware and to
install any accompanying software. This effort typically created siloed
organizations within IT where each silo managed its own parochial needs. The
introduction of public clouds and in particular, the need for Agile software
development meant that siloed organization such as these created barriers to
developing an efficient public cloud offering.

The CCoE is first and foremost the transformation from IT being an intermediary
for strategy, design and operation (a man-in-the-middle role) to becoming a
partner with the business and adds value as a broker to business providing
knowledge and experience around the evolving technology landscapes that cloud
creates.

The CCoE helps customers build a modern IT organization that follows an agile
approach and follows cloud-native principles like using reusable deployment
packages that align with security, compliance, and service management policies;
and maintaining a functional cloud platform that aligns with operational
procedures. The CCoE utilizes DevOps principles combined with cloud native
service management and security controls to empower IT to deliver products and
services with speed, agility, and control.

Enterprises are increasingly adopting the public cloud for its agility and
flexibility. They utilize the cloud's strengths to generate revenue and optimize
resource usage for the business. Microsoft Azure provides a multitude of
services and capabilities that enterprises assemble like building blocks to
address a wide array of workloads and applications.

History
=======

![](media/1e091229a96d0f101a8fc6338dfb6e59.png)

Cloud first, cloud forward
==========================

S

![A yellow sign on a pole Description generated with very high confidence](media/6e91dd449fb5f63c91ce45795420901c.png)

![](media/b728c00fe4137836a58d7514e266713f.png)

What is a ccoe?
===============

S

![](media/b501c641498a7bfe218cdf6b895e946e.png)

![A picture containing text, map Description automatically generated](media/c4e7893791612dbca36558382524caf6.png)

### Do I need a ccoe?

This CCoE offering is where Partners will help customers setup and
operationalize a CCoE with deep focus foundational aspects of platform
enablement. The goal of the offering is to create a secure and well-governed
Azure environment, ready to accept workloads This offering can be undertaken by
almost any customer, from those who are just beginning their cloud journey to
ones who are already deeply invested in cloud but want to modernize their IT
approach.

While the fullest expression of a CCoE may be an organization that implements a
zero touch, infrastructure as code environment - not all customers are willing
nor ready to make the full extent of that journey. This offering is designed to
formalize the creation and to operationalize a CCoE with a focus on platform
aspects, where immediate gains can be made in terms of governance, security and
operational efficiency.

The content of this offering is a pre-requisite before the DevOps-focused CCoE
efforts can begin. An offering focused on CCoE Dev-Ops can be added after this
one for those customers who would benefit from it. One of the tenants of this
offering is to create a CCoE in a way that minimized architectural and
organizational debt for those customers who continue on to take the full
journey.

![](media/5c066e1ea93077708f9a02a92d464623.png)

This model provides a structure for customers to implement, manage, and operate
their Azure platform. The CCoE uses agile DevOps principles combined with
cloud-native service management and security controls to help drive business
innovation, increase agility, and reduce time to value within a secure,
predictable and flexible services delivery and operations management capability.
The CCoE provides patterns for modern IT structures, actions and governance.

This offering is meant to provide the coaching and mentorship needed to enable
the customer’s IT team to realize the value of CCoE operations, as well as
making IT an integral part of their organization.

The CCoE will be initially populated by both the Partner and customer resources
(customer permitting). The Partner will bring recommended practices and
experience to bear with customers to build the CCoE in order to implement,
manage, and operate the Azure platform.

![](media/27867091b9d19cd772c1714e035a03f3.png)

Once the CCoE has grown and matured the need for external guidance is be reduced
and the customer alone should populate the CCoE. This offering is a hands-on
approach where the customer achieves cultural change, adopt a new way of working
and embed use of cloud-native technology and principles.

S

Agile
=====

S
